foreign
[Music]
the work is done the project is ready so
four months back I gave myself a
challenge that I'm gonna build a
filamentation system so I went online
searched a lot of content regarding this
thing but there was not much content
regarding the fundamental shoe system
will therefore adding a few Reddit
Community mainly inactive then I went on
YouTube regarding this thing and I
searched about this uh there are there
are many videos of filamental cheese
system and they were like kind of
expensive they're using like 500 motor
they're using the welding machine on a
lot of stuff or which most people don't
have access to those kind of tools so I
gave myself challenge then I'm gonna
build out one of the simplest as well as
one of the cheapest Venom digit system
as possible and maybe compact also if
you if you want to say that it will use
very less space But as one thing
cheapest doesn't mean it producing bad
quality filament I produced my first
batch of filament and it's printing
really really well so today in this one
I'm gonna break down this machine uh
when there's a breakdown don't Trim in
with the hammer but actually I'm gonna
break down the cost parts that I use and
also the cost as I said and cost May
differ from place to place if you like
from countries like European union or
you're from like United States perhaps
maybe expensive little bit and if you're
countries like China or Vietnam Parts
can be cheaper because those countries
are like producing a lot of this stuff
so let's begin this video so okay let's
do the parts breakdown so first thing
that comes and this is one of the most
important thing I would say is this 8.3
Newton meter torque get this emoted this
rotates at the RPM of 10. it's a 10 RPM
DC motor and this motor is connected to
the speed control which is 12 to 24 volt
speed controller which help us to
control the Extrusion speed and then
next up we have rexc 100 which is comes
with a relay in order to make it work
and we are using ktab thermistor which
is connected to Rex c100 in order to
Monitor and control the temperature can
control the temperature up to like 300
degrees Celsius and next off I'm using
this 12 volt 15 amp power supply in
order to power over this 10 RPM main DC
motor as well as this polar DC motor so
this is like one of the most important
thing in this machine the next show and
the main thing is actually the barrel
and the auger so I'm using 420
millimeter long auger and a 400
millimeter long barrel and which is cut
in middle in order to put the style over
there to pour the filament into it and
then next up we have this heater and
this heat this is 100 millimeter long 16
mm millimeter in diameter heater and
this heater can reach up to like 300
degrees Celsius in temperature and but
I'm using like 170 degree between order
to produce the quality filament and this
is sourced from like local manufacturer
actually and this battle is holded by
this welded 90 degree angle which I got
it welded into this and by which it
because it is very near to the heater so
it needs to be some metal part not some
3D printed part otherwise it will get
melted so I think this is a little bit
like you have to go to the local
hardware store if you don't have the
welding machine well I gone to my
nearest metal workshop and they just
welded it for me for free because they
were like my friends then next thing we
are using like this two 12 volt fans are
basically these fans all I use in
computer mostly so I'm using these two
fan it rotate at the Arkham like I think
6000 and it produces like strong air the
filament comes from the nozzle and then
it cool down by these two fans and the
next thing and this is like one of the
most important thing and this is the
mostly 3D printed part and this is
puller I'm using this puller and if you
want to know more about this puller and
want to download the 3D file so go and
check out the video which I've Linked In
the description so you can watch the
whole assembly process and in that video
I've given the download link also so you
can go and check it out and in this pool
I'm using this 60 RPM gate DC motor and
which is like connected to other few
gears and that's how this filament
cooler really works and most of and one
more important thing is nozzle which
many people don't really talk about so
I'm using two millimeter diameter nozzle
and you can increase the nozzle size if
you want to like three or maximum up to
four but in order to achieve the desire
desired diameter of the filament like
1.75 millimeter 2.85 millimeter you have
to con you have to increase the polar
speed or decrease it whatever I'm using
this tubular box Fringe In This Island
mm tubular box wrench and I'm instead of
coupling I'm using this to connect the
DC motor with the auger because it is
more stronger it is made up of Steel and
it is better I can tight it with the nut
to the DC motor shaft and in auger you
have it is more about the grip and
because there is like a lot of torque is
involved so that grip grip eventually
fails so and I broke like four couplings
in the process then I found out about
this tubular wrench and I'm using this
so I would recommend use this instead of
like coupling this is more better
so you have to like play with this
machine a little bit in order to produce
a good quality filament because of Speed
game basically so this these are the
like whole parts and they're like few
miscellaneous Parts like um wood nuts
and one 3D printed holder for the barrel
which is like the very back end because
they're like that part of the barrel do
not get heated of because of heater so
you can use some 3D printer part two in
order to provide extra support to the
barrel and then there's relay cover and
the holder for Rexy 100 in order to
protect myself from accidental shots and
few other stuff which don't really count
for so this is all these all are the
machine parts and this is the whole
breakdown and one of the detailed
breakdown of this machine okay so real
quick now let's use the cost breakdown
so this DC motor the Kid DC motor with
813 nml torque cost me around 18 and
then the speed controller it costs
around four dollar then the Rex E100
with the relay as well as the k-type
thermistor All In one pack cost me
around twenty dollars twelve volt 15 amp
power supply cost me around ten dollars
they're all gonna end the batter
together cost me like six dollars the
heater cost me around 18 these two fans
cost me around two dollars and the DC
motor in the Fuller cost me around eight
dollars and but if you include all the
parts like bearing and nuts and bolt
that I've used in this puller then it
will cost me around ten dollars then
this tubular range which is I'm using to
connect the DC motor with the auger cost
me on like one dollar from local
hardware store and the puller speed
controller cost around four dollars and
other parts like other miscellaneous
stuff like this wooden board which was
lying in my house and nuts and bolts and
these 90 degree angle so if you add all
the cost and go to the maximum side so
this would cost me around like six
dollars so in total it cost me
how exact the number is guys and this is
completely unintentional I didn't alter
the number in order to get the exact 99
figure it just I got the 99 figure so
let's strong round it up and say 100 so
now let's produce some filament and
let's see how's the filament quality
gonna be and then we're gonna use that
filament to 3D print something
[Music]
foreign
so guys we did produce some good quality
filament you can see 1.8 millimeter
which is kind of bigger like one one
millimeter and here like 0.8 and 0.7 so
we got a good measurement here so
basically it took one little practice in
order to put this good quality filament
but I did pretty this little longer
filament and you need to play with the
speed of pull around the speed of
extruder to have to play with it in
order to get that good quality so I'm
playing with it quite a long time and I
think this is the finest result that I
got from place a bit and it's still it's
not even close to the industrial grade
and I don't think it will reach that
level without their using like ready to
hike quality and very expensive machines
but anyway guys and after playing for
like a half an hour I got like you you
can see I produce this lot of crack but
anyways I think we got the I mean
satisfactory result not too much well
I'm gonna play with this machine for a
few days more until unless I'm gonna
measure out what is a good RPM in order
to get out the finest quality filament
and you can see there's little bit dust
inside so I have to like add the filter
in it otherwise there's no bubble in it
so that's good thing so let's print with
this for them let's see how the print
quality gonna be
[Music]
okay so print is done you can see it's a
benchy that I printed it's a ship it may
seem a little bit messy because it's a
transparent but you need to add the
color palette in order to extrude the
colored filament but anyways so I mean I
would say the walls are kind of smooth
it is not rough at all I was expecting a
little bit more bad quality so it is
like much above the expectation so if I
print with the industrial filament and
then compare this thing with that I
would say it's like 90 of that
industrial producer you get a 95 so
we're getting a really really really
decent quality filament from this and
the quality of filament also depends on
the palette you are using I think these
are like high quality that's why the
filament quality is much much better so
what do you think about this thing let
me know in con box do you think this
project is successful or not well for me
it is kind of successful for you you
have to comment down below and if you
have any question you can also to ask in
the comment box